**Getting Started with Palladio**

[Palladio](palladio.designhumanities.org), a product of Stanford’s
Humanities + Design Lab, is a web-based visualization tool for complex
humanities data. Think of Palladio as a sort of Swiss Army knife for
humanities data. It’s one package that includes a number of tools, each
of which allows you to get a different angle on the same data.

Palladio is relatively new and still under active development — which
means that you will almost certainly encounter bugs! Still, it’s a very
useful tool for getting a handle on a complicated dataset.

**When Might Palladio be the Right Tool for You?**

**You have structured data.**

Here, “structured data” means “data in a spreadsheet”: categorized,
sorted, and stored in an Excel document or some other kind of
spreadsheet application.

**You’re interested in time, space, and relationships.**

That’s where Palladio excels: showing you how various entities are
connected across time and space.

**Your data has many attributes.**

Palladio’s really good at helping you uncover relationships among
disparate attributes over time and space — for example, it can help you
see that a diarist was especially interested in trees as he traveled
through North Carolina, and especially interested in bats as he traveled
through Arizona. Palladio allows you to drill down through your data
using faceted browsing.

**We Might Palladio Not be the Right Tool for You?**

**You have unstructured data.**

If you’re trying to analyze a long text — like a poem or a novel —
Palladio won’t help you much. You’ll want to look for text analysis
tools, like [Voyant](http://voyant-tools.org/).

**You just want to count things.**

If you just want to make relatively simple charts and graphs, like a bar
or pie chart, Palladio is too much tool for you! Instead, try using
Excel’s built-in functions, or check out [DataWrapper](https://www.datawrapper.de/).

**You want to present an interactive visualization.**

One big limitation of Palladio is that you can’t embed or share the
visualizations you create, except in static form. So while Palladio can
help you explore and understand your data, it’s not great for
presentation, at least not yet. Instead, try [Flourish](https://flourish.studio/),
[DataWrapper](https://www.datawrapper.de/), or [Tableau](https://public.tableau.com/en-us/s/).

**You want to create complex, fine-tuned maps and networks graphs.**

While Palladio can produce maps and network graphs, you can’t customize
them to any great extent, and you can’t perform sophisticated network
analysis, such as calculating centrality. Instead, you might consider
more sophisticated mapping tools, such as Carto or ArcGIS, and more
sophisticated network analysis tools, such as Gephi and Cytoscape.

**You hate bugs.**

Palladio is still pretty young, and you may encounter some
bugs. If you prefer not to deal with this, you might investigate
Flourish or Tableau.
